JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
It's Tuesday, primary night in
New York state.
Voters hit the polls today after
heavy campaigning
by the Republican and Democratic
presidential
candidates.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Tuesday:
the longest war. What's behind
the recent
uptick in violence in
Afghanistan?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus, a
conversation with Special
Presidential Envoy Brett McGurk
on the decision
to send more U.S. troops to
Iraq.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And many
American schools
have a growing problem with lead
contamination.
Why are districts across the
country struggling
to provide clean drinking water?
YANNA LAMBRINIDOU, Virginia
Tech: The nature
of the beast is that lead levels
in water
are unpredictable, and exposure
is really
like a Russian roulette.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: A few hours
from now, they
will be counting the votes in
New York's presidential
primary, and for the first time
in many years,
the results could be critical.
Both front-runners lost momentum
after a series
of defeats in recent weeks, but
convincing
victories in New York could
change all that.
For Republican Donald Trump,
winning big tonight
might help avoid a contested GOP
Convention
this summer. For Hillary
Clinton, a good night
would boost her already big lead
in delegates
for the Democratic nomination.
Still, there's no sign their
rivals plan to
drop out, regardless of what
happens tonight.
So the candidates kept at it
today, even as
New Yorkers headed into voting
booths to make
their choice.
WOMAN: Who are you voting for?
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Easy decision.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Donald Trump
casting his
New York primary ballot this
morning in Midtown
Manhattan, a few blocks from his
namesake
tower.
DONALD TRUMP: New York is a
special place.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But the
Republican front-runner
also had to address the churning
within his
political team, including new
roles for veteran
political operatives brought in
as advisers
and the resignation of a top
aide in reaction.
He acknowledged the shakeup
during a phone
interview this morning with FOX
News.
DONALD TRUMP: So, when you bring
other people
in, I could see some people,
their feelings
get a little bit hurt. Frankly,
you know,
we're in a position where we
would like to
see if we can close it out.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Meanwhile,
Trump's closest
rival, Texas Senator Ted Cruz,
turned his
attention to next week's
contests, with a
stop in Philadelphia this
evening. So too
with John Kasich. He's in
Maryland tonight,
after an earlier stop in
Pittsburgh.
The two Democratic contenders
started their
days in New York state. Hillary
Clinton voted
in the town she now calls home,
Chappaqua.
Later, she made a quick trip to
Washington
to court labor.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
And here's my promise to you. If
I'm fortunate
enough to become your president,
organized
labor will always have a
champion in the White
House.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Her rival,
Bernie Sanders,
began with a morning stroll near
New York
City's Times Square. This
afternoon, he made
his pivot to Pennsylvania,
stopping in Erie.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
Let us see Pennsylvania have the
largest voter
turnout of the history of their
primaries.
And let's see the great state of
Pennsylvania
lead this country into the
political revolution.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Pennsylvania
figures to
be the keystone of next
Tuesday's contests,
with 71 Republican delegates and
210 on the
Democratic side.
We will take a detailed look at
today's New
York primary and what lies ahead
later in
the program.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news, a
two-man Taliban raid shook the
heart of Afghanistan's
capital city, killing 28 people
and wounding
hundreds more. The combined
bombing and gun
battle raised new questions
about the government's
ability to secure the country.
We will have
a look at the Taliban's strength
in Afghanistan
right after the news summary.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Hundreds of
international
rescue workers fanned out in
Ecuador today,
looking for earthquake victims.
The weekend
disaster killed at least 433
people. Soldiers
and volunteers joined those
digging through
the rubble on the country's
Pacific coast.
The military also dispensed
food, water and
other supplies to survivors.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Another strong
aftershock rattled
Southern Japan, and the death
toll rose to
45 in last week's twin quakes.
Meanwhile,
a key airport reopened, allowing
the first
passengers and relief goods to
land. Most
outbound passenger flights are
still canceled.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Cuba, Raul
Castro and
the country's old guard will
keep top positions
in the ruling Communist Party,
despite calls
for reform. The government
announced today
that Castro at 84 will stay on
as party first
secretary and Cuba's president;
89-year-old
Fidel Castro also made a rare
appearance at
the party congress.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Obama
left for a
trip to Saudi Arabia today, at a
time of tension
between the two nations. The
Saudis have criticized
the nuclear deal with Iran. And
in a recent
interview, Mr. Obama said the
Sunni kingdom
needs to -- quote -- "share the
Middle East"
with Shiite Iran.
He departed today after trying
to clarify
his meaning in an interview with
PBS' Charlie
Rose:
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states
generally
have to be guarded against Iran
and they have
to be in a position where they
can defend
themselves against Iranian
mischief in the
region, but that, in the end,
Iran is a large
country in the region, and that
a proxy war
between Saudi Arabia and Iran is
in nobody's
interests.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The trip also
comes as Congress
considers letting families of
September 11
victims sue the Saudi government
over any
role it played in the attack.
The White House
opposes the Senate bill, but
senior members
of both parties voiced support
for it today.
Texas Republican John Cornyn is
the main sponsor:
SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas: I
think now the
president seems to want to use
the leverage
of the 9/11 families in order to
somehow mollify
or cure that rift that the
president has created
himself as result of the Iranian
nuclear deal.
I think that's entirely
inappropriate. And
as I tried to point out, we
actually need
to deter people from
facilitating and financing
terrorist attacks on our own
soil.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Both Senate
Majority Leader
Mitch McConnell and House
Speaker Paul Ryan
said today that they still need
to review
the bill. The Saudis have
threatened to pull
billions of dollars from the
U.S. economy
if it becomes it law.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Major parts of
Houston were
still under water today, after
widespread
flooding that's killed six
people so far.
School was canceled again in the
nation's
fourth largest city, and
hundreds of people
were in shelters. Emergency
teams worked around
the clock to evacuate homes
flooded by the
deluge. More than a foot of rain
fell Monday,
and a flash flood watch remained
in effect.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The nation's
largest health
insurer will pull out of
insurance exchanges
in most states by next year.
UnitedHealth said today that
it's losing too
much money on the system
established under
the president's Affordable Care
Act. The company
covers just under 800,000 people
in exchanges
across 34 states. That's about 6
percent of
the total.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Intel has
announced it's
cutting 12,000 jobs worldwide,
about 11 percent
of its work force. The computer
chip maker
says it needs to cut costs, as
sales of P.C.s
decline.
And on Wall Street, the Dow
Jones industrial
average gained 49 points to
close at 18053.
The Nasdaq fell 19 points and
the S&P 50 rose
six.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
Special Envoy Brett McGurk on
the decision
to send more troops to Iraq; how
New York's
primary could shift the momentum
in the presidential
race; schools across the U.S.
grappling with
lead-tainted water, and much
more.
We return to our top story, the
upsurge in
Taliban-driven violence in
Afghanistan, nearly
15 years into the American
involvement there.
Smoke over the Kabul skyline
signaled the
capital was under attack.
AHMAD NAVID, Witness (through
translator):
It was a big blast. Dust covered
all the area.
I wasn't able to see what was
happening. Later,
I saw lot of damage.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One insurgent
blew up a truck
bomb outside a security agency
that protects
top officials. A second attacker
ran into
the compound and started
shooting.
GEN. ABDUL RAHMAN RAHIMI, Kabul
Police Chief
(through translator): After the
car bomb exploded,
a suicide bomber was trying to
enter the building.
He came under fire from inside
the building,
as well as from police forces
who were outside,
who didn't give him the chance
to enter. He
was killed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The attack caused
extensive
damage just a few hundred yards
from the presidential
palace. Meanwhile, fighting
continued in the
northern part of the country,
where government
forces around Kunduz have
battled this week
to repel a Taliban assault.
Last year, the militants
captured the city
and held it for three days
before Afghan forces
backed by U.S. airstrikes drove
them out.
But Afghanistan's chief
executive, Abdullah
Abdullah, said Kunduz and Kabul
show the Taliban's
latest spring offensive has
failed.
ABDULLAH ABDULLAH, Afghan Chief
Executive
(through translator): They were
defeated all
over the country after they
carried out their
attacks and have suffered lots
of causalities.
So, by carrying this suicide
attack, they
wanted to take revenge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still, by most
reckoning, the
Taliban is at its strongest in
years, likely
a concern for President Obama,
when he reversed
course last fall, and announced
the U.S. will
keep 10,000 troops in
Afghanistan through
this year, drawing down to 5,500
in 2017.
For more on today's attack in
Kabul, and what
it says about the overall
security situation
in Afghanistan, we turn to Seth
Jones. He's
director of the International
Security and
Defense Policy center at the
RAND Corporation.
He's written extensively about
Afghanistan,
and in 2011 was a special
adviser to U.S.
special operation forces there.
Seth Jones, welcome back to the
program.
So, what does this attack today
in Kabul say
about the Taliban? Is it
stronger than it's
been, or, as Abdullah Abdullah
says, is what
it's doing failing?
SETH JONES, RAND Corporation:
Well, Judy,
I think what it shows is the
Taliban does
have the ability to conduct
attacks in most
any parts of the country.
And they actually said this in
their Twitter
feeds today and in their
Internet announcements
after the attack of the purpose
of doing this.
At the same time, it's probably
also worth
knowing that the Taliban doesn't
control urban
terrain, like ISIS does in Iraq,
for example.
They don't control Kabul. They
don't control
any major provincial capitals.
So these kind of urban attacks
are done more
for psychological operations,
rather than
control of territory.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, what's the
distinction,
though? You say they don't
control urban areas,
but they're able to pull off
something like
this, almost 30 people killed,
hundreds badly
hurt.
SETH JONES: Yes. What it shows,
they do control
a fair amount of rural terrain.
They also
have cell structures that
operate in cities.
So while the government controls
most of the
urban terrain in cities like
Kabul, the Taliban
does have an ability to push in
resources
and conduct attacks.
And it certainly has an effect
on the population
there, which believes the
government can't
secure it at all times.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so that
psychological effect,
why isn't that the same or
almost the same
as having actual control?
SETH JONES: Well, it's different
because the
Taliban does a lot. It
administers justice
in areas that it controls. It
taxes the local
population.
It has a political structure,
almost a political
state apparatus, in areas that
it controls.
It doesn't have that in cities
like Kabul.
What it has is really a military
and intelligence
infrastructure, but it wants the
political
architecture to go with that. So
this -- it
is part of a longer-term
campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What does this
say, Seth Jones,
about the standing of Afghan
security forces,
which we know the U.S. has been
trying to
build up for years now?
SETH JONES: Look, there are
plenty of challenges
with the Afghan national
security forces.
The higher-end forces that
responded to this
today, the intelligence forces,
the Afghan
commandos, the Qataha (ph), some
of the higher-end
army forces, are pretty good.
But the general state of the
police and a
lot of the army kandaks are of
mixed quality.
I think the problem that we're
seeing is,
they're not very proactive in
pushing out
against the Taliban in rural
areas. And so
the fight is now coming to them
in the cities.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you assess
what the
U.S. is doing? We know the
president decided
to keep American troops in
Afghanistan longer,
but what is the -- what role is
the posture
-- is U.S. posture playing right
now in this
battle between Afghans -- the
Afghan government
and the Taliban?
SETH JONES: Well, first of all,
the U.S. president
has said that the number of
troops, it will
continue to come down through
January of 2017.
So now we're roughly 10,000. He
said they're
going to go down to about 10,000
-- about
5,500.
He's also restricted the ability
to conduct
strikes against the Taliban a
few other groups
like the Haqqani Network without
-- unless
there's a good example of those
forces conducting
attacks against Americans. So,
there are also
limits on what the U.S. can do
training out
in the field.
So, the U.S. has sort of limited
its ability
to impact this, except in
response to these
kinds of attacks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we are
continuing to
watch the story.
Seth Jones, we thank you for
joining us.
SETH JONES: Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: to another
major American
military campaign, against ISIS.
Yesterday, Secretary of Defense
Ash Carter
announced that some 217 more
American troops
would soon go to Iraq, pushing
the American
strength there to over 4,000.
The U.S. will
also send Apache fast-attack
helicopters,
which will help protect the
Iraqi army as
it begins its advance on the
ISIS-held city
of Mosul.
The U.S. also announced more
than $400 million
in aid to the Kurdish Peshmerga
forces in
Northern Iraq.
For more on all this and the
wider war against
ISIS, I'm joined by President
Obama's special
envoy to the coalition fighting
ISIS, Brett
McGurk.
Welcome back to the program.
BRETT MCGURK, Special
Presidential Envoy for
the Global Coalition to Counter
ISIL: Thank
you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why is -- and why
is the president
sending these additional U.S.
advisers?
BRETT MCGURK: Well, the
president really instructed
our team about four or five
months ago to
do all we can to accelerate the
campaign.
And it took a while, Judy, to
get particularly
the Iraqi forces in place to be
able to stand
up, maneuver, conduct offensive
operations.
And we're now seeing some
success. They liberated
Ramadi just last week. They
liberated a really
critical strategic town called
Al-Hit just
to the west of Ramadi in the
center of the
Euphrates Valley.
It's been a stronghold of ISIL.
And they liberated
that last week. And what we're
now in position
to do with the Iraqi security
forces is conduct
pressure against ISIL on
multiple simultaneous
fronts. That's the Euphrates
Valley and Anbar
Province, where operations will
continue,
and now beginning up toward
Mosul.
So, this is really a package
that's been in
development for some time, and
we think it
will give the Iraqis some unique
capabilities
as it moves on Mosul. Mosul is a
little different
than Ramadi. Logistically, the
Iraqis have
the travel a little further than
they're usually
used to.
So we will be helping with
logistics, we will
be helping with sustainment.
And, of course,
when they come into combat, we
will be ready
to support them with Apache
helicopters and
some other enablers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But sending U.S.
forces or
U.S. advisers closer to the
front lines, is
this an acknowledgment the Iraqi
military
is really not able to do the job
alone??
BRETT MCGURK: No, it's really --
you have
to look at the topography of the
battlefield.
In Ramadi, for example, when
Ramadi fell,
the president ordered a
detachment of U.S.
special forces to Taqaddum Air
Base, which
is sandwiched right in between
Ramadi and
Fallujah. It's only about 25
kilometers or
so from the front lines.
Mosul is -- we have to be with
the Iraqis
in their headquarters, and their
headquarters
as they move toward Mosul will
change. They
will be kind of mobile. So we
will be with
the Iraqi commanders, advising
and assisting
what they're doing, which is
very similar
to what we did in Anbar
province.
But in Anbar, where we have two
facilities,
it's a little more stationary.
So, we're on
base. We're advising and
assisting. In Mosul,
there will be a lot of -- it
will be a little
more dynamic. So, we want to
make sure that
our best advisers are with the
headquarters,
with the Iraqi commanders as
they're planning
and conducting their operations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is it fair the
call this mission
creep?
BRETT MCGURK: No, it's the exact
same mission
in Mosul that we have been doing
in Anbar
province. It's just we're moving
into that
phase in Mosul now. It's the
same mission.
The only difference is Apache
helicopters.
But we were prepared to use
Apache helicopters.
The president authorized it for
Ramadi, but
given the situation, given the
fact that the
Iraqis were having an awful lot
of success,
and given the urban environment,
we determined
that it really wasn't needed.
But, in Mosul, it's a complex
terrain. It's
the citadel of Da'esh. They're
well-defended
there. So, we think Apaches can
make a difference.
We discussed this with the Iraqi
government.
Everything we do in Iraq is with
the consent
of the Iraqi government. This is
something
Prime Minister Abadi wanted. And
we found
a formula that we think will be
effective.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me ask
you about
some criticism we're hearing
from the other
side. The "NewsHour" spoke today
with retired
Army Colonel Derek Harvey, who,
as you know,
advised General David Petraeus
in Iraq for
a number of years.
He told us he thinks these steps
represent
insufficient resources in the
first place
by the administration and poor
execution by
the administration working with
the Iraqis.
BRETT MCGURK: Well, I worked in
Iraq with
David Petraeus back in those
days, too, and
Ambassador Crocker. It's a
different time
now. We're not fighting a war.
The Iraqis are fighting the war.
We're in
the middle of liberating all of
Anbar province.
Again, we liberated Ramadi. That
was done
with Iraqis. We're now moving
west up the
Euphrates Valley. This is being
done with
Iraqis. The strategic town of
Al-Hit is critical
because it opens up a free
expressway from
Ramadi to Haditha.
There's a town of Haditha, which
has been
under siege by Da'esh for almost
two years.
We're now in a position to break
that siege.
So, we're having an awful lot of
success.
It's a different campaign than
it was in 2007-2008.
You know, Americans are not
doing the fighting.
We are advising. We're
assisting. We're providing
devastating air support and
special operations.
You know, there are things we of
course don't
talk about much. We have special
operations
and special forces in Northern
Iraq. They're
very effective against the
leadership of Da'esh.
And so, you know, they're doing
a great job.
And everything we do, again,
Judy, is with
the consent of the Iraqi
government. This
is not a situation in which
we're an occupying
force. We're just -- it's a
very, very different,
much more complex, much more
challenging situation
than 2007.
But we believe that the most
sustainable way
to do this is to get the Iraqis
fighting,
to empower locals.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you can
understand why
people look at this, and they
see more troops
going, they see Apache
helicopters going,
and they want to know what's
going on.
But just in the time we have
left, I want
to ask you about Syria, the
fight against
ISIS there. First of all, do you
see real
evidence that the Russians have
begun to go
after ISIS, rather than going
after the rebels
who are fighting the Assad
regime?
BRETT MCGURK: Well, we have seen
a bit of
a shift.
And if you look at the
statistics that we
talk about, when Russia came in,
they claimed
to be going after ISIL. And that
just simply
wasn't true. About 80 percent of
their strikes
were against opposition, the
moderate opposition
forces.
Since the cessation of
hostilities came in
place, their airstrikes have
shifted quite
a bit. And at one point, it was
about 70 percent
against ISIL. And they helped
the Syrian forces
retake Palmyra.
But, look, we have a very long
way to go in
Syria. There is no question.
President Obama
spoke with President Putin
yesterday. We will
be traveling with the president
and secretary
tonight to Saudi Arabia to meet
with the GCC
and discuss the situation in
Syria.
But in the war against ISIL in
Syria, we're
very focused, again, east of the
Euphrates
River, on moving down and
constricting Al-Raqqa,
its center of operations. And
that's something
that we're also looking at
accelerating some
of our efforts there.
And we're also working to again
close off
that last about 98-kilometer
strip of border
that ISIL still controls with
Turkey. And
there's very active fighting
ongoing there
now, which we're supporting.
It's a very complex,
very dynamic situation. There
are no shortcuts.
There are no easy answers.
But what we're doing is that,
when we see
something that works -- and what
we have seen
in the Euphrates Valley and
Anbar province,
the advising, the assisting,
that's worked.
And now we're going to replicate
that as we
move onto the campaign against
-- to liberate
Mosul.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, a lot of
fronts to keep
track of there, as well as in
Iraq.
Brett McGurk, special
presidential envoy,
you're off to Saudi Arabia later
today, where
President Obama will be. Thank
you very much
for joining for us.
BRETT MCGURK: Judy, thank you so
much. Great
to be here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, for more
on today's
Empire State primary, we're
joined by Tamara
Keith of NPR, who is in New York
City tonight,
and in Albany is Karen DeWitt,
Capitol bureau
chief for New York State Public
Radio.
First, Tamara, let me start with
you.
What are you looking for
tonight?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: I'm looking
for a margins of victory.
Donald Trump is in search of a
clean sweep
of delegates. And the only way
he can get
there is if he can get more than
50 percent
of the vote. And on the
Democratic side, Hillary
Clinton is widely expected to
win here. Bernie
Sanders' campaign is sending
around an e-mail
talking about how, in 2008, she
beat President
Obama by 17 percent, which seems
to be setting
up a question of what the margin
would be
this time.
Sanders is expected to do better
than that.
He's expected to keep it
relatively close.
The question is just how close.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Karen, how
about you? What
are you looking for as you look
at the returns
later this evening?
KAREN DEWITT, New York State
Public Radio:
Well, yes, I would agree.
If Hillary Clinton doesn't do a
10 percent
win better than Bernie Sanders,
it's going
to look bad for her, because she
has the party
establishment support here, the
support of
Governor Cuomo, New York City
Mayor Bill de
Blasio. She was our senator for
eight years,
a very popular senator.
So, if she doesn't do a
double-digit win,
I think it's going to look quite
bad for her.
But I'm also looking at turnout.
I mean, big
turnout does help Bernie
Sanders. It helps
Donald Trump. And, you know,
anecdotally,
we have heard a lot about
turnout being quite
high almost everywhere, and
particularly in
a number of Upstate places, like
Syracuse
University, where there's a lot
of students,
who presumably support Bernie
Sanders.
So that's another thing to be
looking at as
well.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, Karen,
staying with
you for a second, what about the
demographics
on the Republican side? Are
Upstate voters
in New York, Upstate
Republicans, different
than city slicker Republicans in
Manhattan
or the boroughs?
KAREN DEWITT: Well, there are
not very many
New York City Republicans.
There's very few
of them. Their base is Long
Island and Westchester
and then Upstate.
Yes, they're not as conservative
as national
Republicans. I think that's why
we have seen
Ted Cruz hasn't done as well.
They're kind
of independent-minded people. I
think that's
why Donald Trump has really
resonated with
them as well.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, Tamara,
these are candidates
now that are focused on already
next week's
stuff. As we kind of looked at,
Ted Cruz has
turned the corner and left. John
Kasich is
in different places, Bernie
Sanders, Hillary
Clinton. They're already looking
to next Tuesday.
TAMARA KEITH: Absolutely,
because the primary
moves on from here, though the
Clinton campaign
is also beginning to have this
conversation
where they say, we aren't asking
Bernie Sanders
to drop out of the race, but we
are saying,
it looks like Clinton is going
to be the nominee,
maybe Sanders should change the
tone.
So the Clinton campaign really
feels like
New York turns a corner. The
Sanders campaign
doesn't agree, and they are
planning to compete
all the way through California
on June 7.
And they believe that he does
have momentum
and that he will continue to.
But the delegate math is a real
challenge
for Sanders at this point going
forward into
the states ahead.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, Tamara,
staying with
you, this is not a
winner-take-all state,
like we have had in several
other contests.
What happens as we get on both
the Republican
side of demographics, the
Democratic side,
without too much math?
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
So, on the Democratic side, like
in every
state, it's proportional, and so
you can't
really win huge in any state,
but there are
a lot of delegates at stake here
in New York.
On the Republican side, it's --
if Donald
Trump gets more than 50 percent,
then there
are some statewide delegates
that he would
get.
And then each congressional
district, if you
get more than 50 percent, it's
winner-take-all.
Otherwise, it's divided up.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Karen, as you
talk to voters
over the past week, have the
recent challenges
that both Donald Trump and
Hillary Clinton
have faced, the idea that
momentum might be
shifting to other candidates,
has that resonated
with voters Upstate?
KAREN DEWITT: Yes, one thing I
would add is
that it is -- New York is --
really has a
closed primary, more closed than
other states.
If you wanted to switch parties
or join a
party, you had to do it last
October. If you're
a new voter, you had to register
by March.
So I think what we're really
seeing is a lot
of people are disappointed
because, if they
were newly interested in the
last two weeks,
they're being left out of being
able to vote
in the primary today.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And then what
about that
idea of momentum shifting in the
past few
weeks? Has that crossed the
minds of the voters
you have spoken with?
KAREN DEWITT: I don't think so,
really. I
think, like, New York voters are
focused on
New York. We have seen the
campaign be all
about New York, specific to
regions Upstate,
to New York City.
All the candidates are here. And
I don't think
that certainly voters here are
really thinking
much beyond that at all.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Are there any
specific -- Karen,
are there any specific issues
Upstate that
are different from the ones that
voters are
facing in the cities?
KAREN DEWITT: Well, you know,
Upstate, it's
a different world up here. It's
more rural.
You have all these are Rust Belt
cities, where
manufacturing has left.
And people are really discontent
over the
economy. And I think that both
Sanders and
Trump have resonated with these
voters here
who aren't feeling really good
about their
future. They see their children
having to
leave after college to get jobs.
The jobs
aren't here. So it really is
kind of a different
world.
And there's had to be at least
two different
campaigns, if not, as Tamara
said, 27 different
campaigns because of the 27
congressional
districts, where they're having
to compete
in every single one of them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Karen DeWitt,
Capitol bureau chief for New
York State Public
Radio, and Tamara Keith of
National Public
Radio, thanks so much for
joining us tonight.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
KAREN DEWITT: Sure thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
economic
toll of the migrant crisis on
the Greek island
of Lesbos; and a look at the
in-depth coverage
of police shootings that won The
Washington
Post a Pulitzer Prize. safe
water
But first: worries over lead in
the water
in school districts around the
country.
The outcry over Flint, Michigan
has brought
a new spotlight to problems
elsewhere. Communities
are becoming more sensitive to
the issue,
but many schools are having a
hard time dealing
with something so complex and
expensive.
The "NewsHour"'s April Brown
reports for our
weekly education series, Making
the Grade.
APRIL BROWN: Across the nation,
there has
been a lot of news coverage on a
growing problem
in many schools.
WOMAN: This afternoon, a Central
Indiana school
district is on high alert after
unsafe levels
of lead are discovered in its
water.
WOMAN: Test results within
Ithaca School District
that show high amounts of lead
in water sources.
APRIL BROWN: But none of this is
new to second-grader
Cyrus Schillenback, who knows a
lot more about
lead than most kids his age.
CYRUS SCHILLENBACK, Student:
It's very dangerous.
And if you eat it, you will get
poisonous
-- poisoned quite quick.
APRIL BROWN: And if you drink
it?
CYRUS SCHILLENBACK: And if you
drink it, it's
the same.
APRIL BROWN: Cyrus and his
brother Cazimer
(ph) attends Caroline
Elementary, just outside
Ithaca, New York. Their school
was one of
two in the area where high
levels of lead
were found in the water last
August.
But parents, including Cyrus'
mom Rebecca,
say it wasn't until January they
were told
their kids might have been
exposed for months
to a neurotoxin that is
especially harmful
to children.
REBECCA SCHILLENBACK, Mother: We
got a letter
home. It was kind of cryptic. It
said there
has been elevated lead found,
and we're sure
you want to talk about this,
basically, so
come to this parent meeting,
this informational
parent meeting.
APRIL BROWN: That February
meeting got heated
at times.
WOMAN: My daughter's classroom
had elevated
lead levels. I got papers home,
papers, not
even the courtesy of a phone
call.
APRIL BROWN: The district
wouldn't make anyone
available to speak with us, but
administrator
David Brown spoke at the
community meeting.
DAVID BROWN, Ithaca City School
District:
We should have reported. We
should have retested.
We didn't. We waited for the
county health
department. That was in
September. I can't
go back to September. That is
where we are
right now.
WOMAN: Neither can we.
APRIL BROWN: Caroline parent
Melissa Hoffman
felt the district should have
taken action
much sooner.
MELISSA HOFFMAN, Parent: I was
very alarmed.
My heart was just exploding with
fear for
my child, for all the children,
for the teacher,
and I felt helpless.
APRIL BROWN: Over the past few
decades, districts
in Los Angeles, New York City,
Seattle, Washington,
D.C., and elsewhere have found
higher-than-acceptable
lead levels in school drinking
water.
That's cause for concern,
according to Lynn
Goldman, a former regulator with
the Environmental
Protection Agency and now dean
of the George
Washington University's School
of Public Health.
DR. LYNN GOLDMAN, Dean, George
Washington
University School of Public
Health: Lead is
quite toxic to children, and
especially when
it comes to the development of
their nervous
system, the brain, but also the
cardiovascular
system.
APRIL BROWN: In fact, the EPA
warns that exposure
to even low levels of lead can
cause low I.Q.,
hearing impairment, reduced
attention span,
and poor classroom performance.
So, how does lead get into
school drinking
water? Many school buildings in
the U.S. are
old and were built when lead
pipes, solder
or fixtures were allowed to be
used. When
water is in contact with these
materials for
extended periods of time, over
weekends and
holidays, for example, the toxin
can leach
into it. Water can also become
contaminated
if small particles containing
lead break off.
YANNA LAMBRINIDOU, Virginia
Tech: This amount
of water is expected to diagnose
whether there
is a lead and water problem
associated with
a specific tap.
APRIL BROWN: Yanna Lambrinidou,
who teaches
at Virginia Tech and has studied
lead in water
nationally, says finding lead
contamination
can be tricky.
YANNA LAMBRINIDOU: The nature of
the beast
is that lead levels in water are
unpredictable,
and exposure is really like a
Russian roulette.
You might hit a very, very high
lead in water
sample, and then you might hit
no lead in
water for the rest of the
samples you take.
APRIL BROWN: The EPA's Safe
Drinking Water
Act originally created in 1974
doesn't require
all schools to perform regular
water testing.
Only schools and child care
centers with their
own water supplies, such as
Wells, are required
to do so.
And Lynn Goldman says that and
the fact no
one agency is responsible for
removing lead
from school drinking water are
big gaps in
the regulatory system. And she
says this is
a national problem that we
really don't yet
know the scope of.
DR. LYNN GOLDMAN: Until fairly
recently, lead
was allowed in so many materials
that wound
up in the plumbing.
APRIL BROWN: And, according to
the EPA, for
schools that must test, the
amount of lead
allowed in their drinking water
is higher
than what's allowed in homes.
But Yanna Lambrinidou says those
levels were
not chosen based on public
health protection.
YANNA LAMBRINIDOU: The only
level of lead
in drinking water that is safe
is zero. And,
in fact, EPA's lead and cooper
rule states
very clearly that, when it comes
to health
and a health-based standard,
zero is our number.
APRIL BROWN: Last month,
officials in Newark,
New Jersey, began offering to
test thousands
of children and shut off water
in more than
half its 67 schools after
finding lead levels
exceeding the EPA's safety
threshold.
But the Newark teachers union
believes some
in the district may have known
about the problem
earlier, and shared an advisory
from 2014
with instructions on how to
reduce the risk
of possible lead contamination.
The districts
told member station NJTV
remedial actions
are taken when elevated samples
are detected.
Newark Mayor Ras Baraka recently
asked for
the community's help to deal
with the situation.
RAS BARAKA, Mayor of Newark, New
Jersey: We
need at least 2,000 to 3,000
people to bring
us two cases of water apiece and
drop them
off at all of our community
centers.
APRIL BROWN: Using bottled water
has been
the solution for Baltimore City
Public Schools
for years.
Do you guys know why you can't
drink the water?
STUDENT: Because it's like --
something wrong
with it.
APRIL BROWN: That something
wrong is lead
contamination. In 2007, after
years of lead
testing and remediation, the
district decided
to shut off all drinking
fountains and food
preparation sinks in cafeterias
and move to
bottled water.
It reportedly costs about
$450,000 a year.
Erika Brockman runs the
Southwest Baltimore
Charter School, which is housed
in a Baltimore
public school building. She
says, in a district
dealing with tough choices, she
can understand
not wanting to potentially spend
millions
of dollars on repairing and
replacing lead
pipes and fixtures in schools.
ERIKA BROCKMAN, Southwest
Baltimore Charter
School: Would the money that the
district
gets be better spent giving me a
great teacher
in my classroom or fixing the
pipes in my
building? In a short-term basis,
I'm going
to say, give me the teacher, any
day, hands
down.
APRIL BROWN: And for Rebecca
Schillenback
in Ithaca, lead is now one more
thing she
must add to her parental worry
list.
REBECCA SCHILLENBACK: It was
just something
we were taking for granted.
Wherever we got,
we're going to have clean, safe
water. And,
of course, when we send our kids
to school,
it will be clean, safe water.
You wouldn't
even think about it. I wasn't
thinking about
it. So, this is a wakeup call.
APRIL BROWN: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm April
Brown in Ithaca, New York.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tourism
businesses on the
Greek island of Lesbos are
asking for protection
from bankruptcy as they face a
potential economic
catastrophe. Tens of thousands
of vacationers
normally expected on one of
Greece's more
idyllic spots are staying away
because of
the island's central role as a
landing zone
for refugees.
Now the islanders are appealing
for what they
call solidarity tourism.
Special correspondent Malcolm
Brabant reports
from Lesbos.
HELEN STEDMAN, Tourist: I have
seen a cormorant.
I have seen a Ruppell's warbler.
I have seen
a subalpine warbler.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Every year,
spring in Lesbos
lures millions of migrating
birds and British
pensioner Helen Stedman. Unlike
other tourists,
troubled by images of suffering
and misery,
she and her keen bird-watching
partner, Jeff
Bailey, have remained faithful
to an island
they believe typifies
unadulterated Greece.
HELEN STEDMAN: I feel sad for
the islanders.
The economy is suffering. And we
have noticed
that restaurants that we have
favored before
have closed. They're not there
anymore. They
have gone bankrupt.
The people can't -- the locals
can't afford
to pay wages. And they're just
not opening.
Tourism is their biggest income
in this island.
And if we don't come and support
them, then
they're not going to survive,
MALCOLM BRABANT: Seasonal worker
Nikos Paspalatelis
is helping his former boss
prepare the hotel
for the summer. Married with two
small children,
Paspalatelis has worked here for
almost 20
years, but he's been laid off
this summer,
which means his state insurance
won't be paid,
which means he won't be entitled
to unemployment
benefit in the winter, when
there's no seasonal
work.
NIKOS PASPALATELIS, Newly
Unemployed: I'm
not going to say that we're
angry, because
angry is something you do if
somebody make
you very big damage to you. But
this is -- I
hope this will be only for one
year, this
damage. Maybe if you ask me
maybe in two or
three years, if this situation
continue, I
would say, yes, I'm going to be
hungry -- angry
-- sorry.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This hotel was
on the front
line. The owners estimate more
than 1,000
boats landed on the beach next
to their taverna,
most during the peak season.
German water
sports instructor Wolfgang Punke
has come
to say farewell and remove his
gear.
WOLFGANG PUNKE, Water Sports
Instructor: Oh,
I have to pack up because, in
Europe, on the
television, you get almost every
two, third
or fourth day information about
Lesbos, about
the refugees. And you think
Lesbos is full
of refugees. And so the booking
numbers are
going down, up to zero.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Hotelier
Dimitrios Vatis,
whom we met at the start of the
refugee crisis,
shows us the difference between
bookings for
last year, which started so
promisingly, and
this.
DIMITRIOS VATIS, Hotelier: This
year, the
difference between the two of
them is minus-88.28
percent.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This business,
along with
hundreds of others on Lesbos,
could be in
serious trouble. They face
double the pressure,
extra tax demands to help with
Greece's other
crisis, its debt burden.
The hotelier is appealing to the
government
to protect vulnerable
enterprises from bank
foreclosures as they try to
survive. But his
prime concern is for loyal
employees that
he's been forced to let go.
DIMITRIOS VATIS: In a little
while, these
people, they may end up asking
jobs somewhere
else, so they will be refugees.
I feel badly,
terribly when I'm talking about
the rest of
the people that they work in the
hotel, and
they're not going to be able to
have a job
this summer.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Day trippers
from Turkey
who've taken the legal ferry to
cross the
Aegean climb one of Lesbos' main
attractions,
the chapel in Petra, the rock.
But their custom in no way
replaces of the
90,000 foreign visitors the
island anticipated
before the crisis. The islanders
were being
talked about as potential Nobel
Peace Prize
nominees for their generosity
and hospitality.
The sense of rejection pains
cafe owner Stelios
Chiotellis, who is a stone's
throw from the
chapel. Not only is his business
being jeopardized
by the tourists staying away,
but also by
foreign package holiday
companies, which are
trying to force the islanders to
cut their
prices still further.
STELIOS CHIOTELLIS, Cafe Owner:
All the locals
here, they did the best they
could to help
the refugees last year. When
they first came
out, there wasn't NGOs here.
There was nothing.
So we gave them food, drinks.
Many people
helped a lot, a lot. I wouldn't
say, me, I
helped a lot, but we do our
best.
And then, instead of people
appreciate that
and say like, oh, these people
help, they
turned their back to us now.
Like, they canceled
all the flights.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This is
Eressos, home to
Sappho, the ancient Greek poet
who wrote of
romantic love between women.
This village
is one of the world's leading
lesbian destinations.
Its location on the west of the
island shielded
it from the armada of rafts.
Despite its prominence
in a niche market, Eressos is
also facing
a bleak future.
Local tourist chief Fani
Gallinou.
FANI GALLINOU, Tourist Chief: We
don't how
long we will be this season. We
have guests
that they want to come, but they
don't know
how, or it is very expensive for
them, because
there are no anymore charter
flights. We had
25 charter flights per week, and
now we have
only 10.
MALCOLM BRABANT: For a place
that has had
such a turbulent year and whose
geographical
position has guaranteed it
prominence in 21st
century history, Lesbos can be
disarmingly
tranquil.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Bird-watcher
Jeff Bailey
has great sympathy with the
people escaping
war, oppression and poverty, and
has this
message for holiday-makers
worried about the
migrant crisis.
JEFF BAILEY, Tourist: Well, I
think the island
is looking as wonderful as
always. And I would
urge anybody who has wanted to
come to the
island to please come to the
island. There's
no issues with the migrants. The
vast majority
of the island, you won't
experience that,
and so there's no reason for you
not to come.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Last summer,
Lesbos was inundated,
as the authorities failed to
cope with the
refugee crisis. But now the
system is much
more organized, as the European
Union tries
to get control of its external
borders. Irrespective
of the rights and wrongs, the
reality is that
the refugees and migrants are
now being kept
away from the main tourist
areas.
The village of Molyvos, with its
medieval
citadel, has endured a torrid 12
months and
witnessed significant tragedy.
But the apocalyptic
scenes in its cobbled streets
have evaporated.
Although she has to work two
jobs, 15 hours
a day, seven days a week,
restauranteur Ioanna
Stipsanou takes a long
historical view and
is optimistic.
IOANNA STIPSANOU, Restauranteur:
It's famous.
Everybody knows Lesbos. And it
know exactly
also the good things we have.
It's the people,
the hospitality, and how
beautiful is the
place and how beautiful the
people are, and
how secure and safe you are when
you're here
with us.
MALCOLM BRABANT: While the
islanders' short-term
plea is for tourists to return,
their more
substantive desire is for the
world powers
to bring peace to conflict
zones, so that
people no longer need to use
these shores
as a stepping stone.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Lesbos.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And now some
news about
our own reporting.
Today, the "PBS NewsHour" won a
2015 Peabody
Award for Desperate Journey, our
extensive
reporting on the European
migrant crisis.
Malcolm Brabant, who just
reported our story
from Lesbos, has led much of
coverage on the
ground from across the region.
You can find
all our reports online, on our
home page at
PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And speaking of
awards, let's
look at some investigative
reporting honored
by this year's Pulitzer Prizes.
The Washington Post won two
Pulitzers yesterday,
including one for national
reporting for a
series on police shootings of
civilians. There
had been little national data
about those
kind of shootings.
The Post created its own
database that included
these findings: 990 people were
fatally shot
by police last year. One in six
officers had
been involved in a prior
shooting. In three-quarters
of the cases, police were under
attack or
defending someone who was.
Wesley Lowery was one of The
Washington Post's
lead reporters on this. He's
part of a team
of more than 60. And he joins me
now.
Congratulations, Wesley Lowery.
WESLEY LOWERY, The Washington
Post: Thank
you so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's see. How
many years have
you been reporting?
WESLEY LOWERY: A few, but -- a
few, a handful.
So, I'm 25. I have been at The
Post for two
years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what was your
reaction?
WESLEY LOWERY: I was really
excited.
This was a project that really
was a newsroom-wide
effort that involved a lot of
different staffs,
our investigative staff, our
national desk,
which I work for, our graphics
and data development
staffs as well. It was just a
really great
team win.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How did the idea
for this come
about?
WESLEY LOWERY: So, this idea,
this project
was born in a lot of ways out of
Ferguson,
Missouri.
And I was one of our lead
reporters on the
ground in Missouri, as well as
then in Baltimore,
when there was unrest there. And
in Ferguson,
they were having this
conversation where you
had the police unions and the
police chiefs
saying at the time, this is a
one-off anecdote.
We almost never shoot anybody.
Most officers
never fire their guns.
And you had the civil rights
groups and many
of the activists and protesters
saying, young
black men are being executed in
the streets
every day. This is an outrage.
We're being
killed.
And so smart editors asked an
obvious question,
which is true. We should know,
right? We should
be able to provide some clarity
to this debate.
And it turned out that we
couldn't because
no one was keeping track at the
national level
and also even at state levels.
No one knew
exactly how many people were
being killed
by the police.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So what did The
Post do? As
you said, 60 or 70 people
involved. What had
to be done?
WESLEY LOWERY: And so what we
ended up doing
-- and this part of this effort
was led by
Julie Tate and Jen Jenkins, two
of my close
colleagues, two of our
researchers.
And, systematically, day by day,
we would
search for local news reporting
of police
shootings, right, because that's
the place
where you are most consistently
seeing some
type of public acknowledgment of
a police
shooting, a local television
station, a local
newspaper.
Then what we would do is, we
would build the
database out. For every shooting
we found,
that was one line, one name. And
then we would
go in and we report out 20 or 30
different,
you know, pieces of data points
about it,
race, age, gender, mental
illness, for example.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Whether they were
armed or
not.
WESLEY LOWERY: Whether they were
armed or
not, and what they were armed
with. Was there
a toy weapon? Was it a knife?
Was it a sledgehammer?
That kind of stuff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But this is --
this took how
long to do?
WESLEY LOWERY: So, a full year.
So, we launched
in January, and we're still --
to date still
working.
But this was a year's worth of
reporting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It really made a
huge splash
when this story came out. It
continues to
be looked at, Wesley Lowery.
What struck you as most -- what
surprised
you most? I know we said that
three-quarters
of those who were killed by
police were armed
or were attacking officers.
WESLEY LOWERY: In some way
attacking the officer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Did that surprise
you?
WESLEY LOWERY: No, that wasn't
completely
surprising to me.
Now, granted, a lot of the
conversation we
have is about those cases where
perhaps that
isn't what happened or where
there is some
type of question. But, in some
ways, we expect
that. We hope and we know that
most of our
police officers out there are
not being placed
in some of these situations, and
also that
in many of the cases, when
someone is shot
and killed, that there is either
some type
of legal justification or some
type of extenuating
circumstance.
But the sheer number did
surprise us, right,
the fact that it was almost
1,000 over the
course of the year, and that
very many of
them, even in cases where people
were armed
or unarmed, you had issues of
mental illness.
You had people who had knives,
instead of
guns perhaps, cases that seemed
that perhaps
there was something that could
have been done
to prevent this person from
being killed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes, I was struck
that, what
is it, a quarter of the cases,
the individual
was having a mental episode or
they were mentally
ill.
WESLEY LOWERY: Yes, so, one out
of every four
shootings, that person is either
explicitly
suicidal or in the midst of some
type of mental
crisis. Right.
Sometimes, that's compounded by
drugs or alcohol.
But very often, you are seeing
people with
depression, people who are manic
depressive,
people who are bipolar, and who
are suffering
from some type of ailment, some
physical,
mental ailment. And that's
leading them into
these confrontations with police
officers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you believe
this has had
an impact, this reporting?
WESLEY LOWERY: I do.
And one of the most obvious way
is that we
embarrassed the federal
government into announcing
that they're going to try to
keep some of
this data. Previously, again,
there was -- this
wasn't out there. We had to
count them case
by case.
And I think, as we wrote these
stories, people
got a little outraged by that,
and they said,
that's ridiculous. We should
know. In a country
where we count everything,
barrels of corn
and number of shark attacks, and
we know the
statistics from the movie that
premiered last
night, we know exactly how many
people saw
it and how much popcorn they
ate, but we didn't
know how many people were being
killed by
police.
Now, like I said, the FBI has
announced they
are going to start doing a
project similar
to ours that should launch next
year to track
these, so that we can keep
having this conversation.
We can have this conversation
with information
and data and facts, instead of
us sort of
having a conversation with
emotion and anecdotes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Last question.
In a time when we seem to be
seeing so much
focus on social media, which is
how people
communicate, less resources put
into raw reporting,
what do you think a project like
this says?
WESLEY LOWERY: This speaks to
the power that
we still have as journalists and
that newsrooms
still have, when we decide to
pivot on an
issue and focus our resources
into it.
As a political reporter
previously, but then
also a lot of breaking news, I
was someone
who did a lot of real-time
social media reporting,
doing things, you know, as they
break. And
this was, you know, for me, a
great experience
getting to work on many
longer-term kind of
enterprise pieces.
But it speaks to -- it's very
inspiring to
work at a place like The Post
that can devote
this type of man and woman power
to this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we want to
extend congratulations
to you, to your entire team at
The Washington
Post.
Wesley Lowery, thank you very
much.
WESLEY LOWERY: Thank you for
having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we have more
coverage of
the Pulitzer winners online,
including our
owns interviews with Lin-Manuel
Miranda, winner
in drama for his Broadway
musical "Hamilton,"
and author Joby Warrick, who
explored the
rise of the Islamic State. Plus,
see our special
series from Jack Ohman, who won
for his editorial
cartoons.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also on the
"NewsHour" online:
The weather's getting warmer,
and people want
to get out of the office,
including potential
employers. In our Ask the
Headhunter column
today: the do's and don'ts of
interviewing
in a bar.
And how a music program is
helping underserved
youth in Austin, Texas, by
teaching kids to
play the steel drums. We have a
video from
member station KLRU.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Time to vote in New York ticked
down as voters
headed to the polls in the
presidential primaries.
Democratic and Republican
candidates campaigned
furiously ahead of the vote. A
two-man Taliban
raid shook the Afghan capital of
Kabul, killing
28 people and wounding hundreds
more. The
target was a government security
agency near
the presidential palace.
And the death toll in last
weekend's earthquake
in Ecuador rose to 433.
International rescue
teams fanned out to look for the
dozens of
people still missing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And tonight on
"Charlie Rose":
more of Charlie's interview with
President
Obama, which focused on foreign
policy.
In this preview, the president
explains his
decision to keep U.S. troops out
of Syria.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Probably the area where I have
gotten the
most criticism from some in the
foreign policy
establishment here in Washington
is around
the Syria situation.
CHARLIE ROSE, Host, "The Charlie
Rose Show":
Yes, and the red line.
BARACK OBAMA: And there, what
you have is
people who I think instinctively
feel that,
where something is going wrong,
where we have
a problem, the solution is for
the United
States to send its military in
and impose
order.
And, surely, what we have
learned not just
from Iraq, but even the great
challenges that
we have had in places like
Afghanistan, where
we have now been there for 13
years, devoted
enormous resources, lives lost,
and I can
tell you, from visiting
Afghanistan, talking
to our troops, they are the best
of the best.
I mean, these folks know what
they're doing.
They are outstanding at what
they do.
And yet it's still a very
challenging environment.
So the notion that, while we are
still busy
in Afghanistan, still trying to
keep Iraq
together, that we would now then
potentially
involve ourselves in another
military excursion
in Syria, that's the kind of
unwise decision-making
that I think leads us to make
big mistakes
and ultimately also miss out on
opportunities
elsewhere in the world.
JUDY WOODRUFF: See Charlie
Rose's full interview
tonight here on PBS.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that's the
"NewsHour"
for tonight.
On Wednesday, the Supreme Court
hears arguments
about whether police officers
can give blood
or breath tests to suspected
drunk drivers
without a search warrant.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.